1- Savings
Not surprisingly, Savings was reported as the number one indicator of success with
Savings Plans. After all, it makes sense that savings would be a good way to measure
how well you’re doing with a plan designed to save you money!

2- Coverage
Not far behind Savings was Coverage. Many businesses are measuring how much of their 
compute spending is covered by Savings Plans; the more coverage the better because 
that means you’re spending less money for the same compute power.  
We typically recommend that our customers aim for at least 70% of their compute usage 
to be covered by reservation discounts (Savings Plans and/or Reserved Instances).

3- Utilization
About a third of the customers who responded told us that Utilization is a key performance 
indicator for them. This also makes sense, as Savings Plans are a “use-it-or-lose-it” 
kind of deal. Let me explain: let’s say you commit to spending $10 per hour on compute 
services, but you only spend $8 in any given hour. The unused $2 is lost – it doesn’t 
accumulate for usage in the next hour. So, it’s important to make sure you’re utilizing 
as close to 100% of your Savings Plan purchases as possible. 

4- Waste
On the flip side of Utilization is Waste. In the example above, the unused $2 is 
considered waste. Just as you want to maximize utilization, you want to minimize 
wasted spending. So, measuring waste is another great way to see how you’re doing 
with Savings Plans.

5- Dollars Spent on Compute
The fifth most important KPI reported was Dollars Spent on Compute. Businesses want 
to reduce the amount of money they spend per unit of compute power, and Savings Plans 
help you accomplish this. So, seeing a trend toward cheaper compute power—or 
consistently cheap compute power—is another indicator that you’re succeeding with 
Savings Plans. This metric is akin to Coverage, as the more you are covered by SPs 
and RIs, the cheaper your cost will be per unit of compute.  

ref: https://www.cloudhealthtech.com/blog/cloud-kpis-you-need-measure-success
