Create Cross Account Access Roles


Step1: Create Role to Allow Cross Account 
Access to Destination Account

1- Click Create Role

2- Select Another AWS Account

3- Specify Account ID

4- Optional: Select "Require External ID" 
for increased security. Recommended if you 
don't own the external account.
If this option is selected, the external 
entity cannot use the switch role feature. 
They can only use the CLI or API access.

5- Select role

6- Provide Role name and create role.


When an administrator creates a role for 
cross-account access they establish trust 
between the account that owns the role and 
the resources (trusting account) and the 
account that contains the users 
(trusted account).
To do this, the administrator of the trusting 
account specifies the trusted account number
as the Principal in the role's trust policy. 
That allows potentially any user in the trusted account to assume the role.
To complete the configuration, the administrator
of the trusted account must give specific 
groups or users in that account permission 
to switch to the role.

To grant a user permission to switch to a role,
the administrator of the trusted account 
creates a new policy for the user. Or the 
administrator might edit an existing policy
to add the required elements.
The administrator can then send the users a
link that takes the user to the Switch Role
page with all the details already filled in.
Alternatively, the administrator can provide
the user with the account ID number or 
account alias that contains the role and the
role name. The user then goes to the Switch
Role page and adds the details manually. 

Note that you can switch roles only when you
sign in as an IAM user. You cannot switch 
roles when you sign in as the AWS account 
root user.



Step2: Allow Users in Destination Account, Access to Resources in Source Account

1- The administrator of the trusted account creates a new policy (JSON below) that allows it's
users to assume and switch to a role. Replace Account ID and Role in the following

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": {
    "Effect": "Allow",
    "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
    "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::ACCOUNT-ID-WITHOUT-HYPHENS:role/<Role Name>"
  }
}

2- Create a user role and use this policy to allow switch role function

3- Copy the role link after the role has been created and to users to switch role.


Ref: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=20tr9gUY4i0
Ref: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_permissions-to-switch.html
